We've taken clients from zero to
hundreds of thousand of impressions on
LinkedIn, not once, repeatedly. Founders
nobody had heard of, executives with
under 500 followers, people who'd been
posting for months with nothing to show
for it. And almost every time, it wasn't
better writing that changed things. It
was the post type. There are four
specific formats that consistently break
through on LinkedIn, even when nobody
knows your name yet. We've tested these
across dozens of clients, track the
data, and watch them work in every
niche, from B2B SAS to agency services
to executive personal brands. This video
is the breakdown, what each format is,
how it works mechanically, and the exact
results we've seen.
The reason most LinkedIn posts don't
travel is not because they're badly
written. It's because they only appeal
to a tiny slice of the audience. You
write about your niche expertise. The
200 people who already follow you and
care about that exact topic see it.
Maybe 15 of them engage. And the
algorithm looks at this and thinks this
isn't resonating broadly enough to push
further. So the post dies. The posts
that break through do something
different. They tap into topics, names,
and conversations that a much wider
audience within your niche already cares
about. When more people read on, more
people engage. And when more people
engage, the algorithm pushes it harder.
And that's what these four formats do.
They make your content appeal to the
widest possible audience inside your
niche, not just the people you already
know. You're not waiting for people to
find you. You're walking into
conversations they are already having.
Format number one, brandjacking.
Brandjacking is when you take a decision
a well-known brand made, a campaign, a
product, a launch, a mistake, a pivot,
and you use it as the frame for your own
insight. You are not reporting on the
brand. You are not summarizing what
happened. You are borrowing the name
recognition they already have and
redirecting it toward your area of
expertise. The mechanism is simple. When
someone sees Hines or Apple or Nike in a
headline, they already have a reaction
before they read a single word. You are
capturing that reaction and steering it.
One of our clients used Hines dropping
their logo from billboards and still
having 70% brand recognition without it
to make a point about creative
consistency versus testing velocity in
paid social. 9,000 impressions, 193
reactions, 33 saves. Another used Liquid
Death. Their post broke down how Liquid
Death's creative team generates billions
in earned media without a traditional ad
budget. But the more interesting thing
that happened is that the VP of creative
at Liquid Death showed up in the
comments and corrected a detail. That
comment alone got 190 likes. That's what
I call the boomerang effect. You throw
attention at a brand. You write
something sharp about their decision.
And when the subject of your post
notices and engages, the algorithm reads
that as a signal that something real is
happening. And it pushes it harder. The
distribution compounds. the attention
you gave out comes right back. You don't
need to be famous to get in front of
VP's audience. You just need to write
something worth their time. The rule for
making brandjacking work, your insight
has to be genuinely yours. You are not
summarizing the brand's story. You are
using their story as evidence for a
point only you would make. Format number
two, newsjacking. Newsjacking is being
the first credible voice to
contextualize something significant
happening in your industry. Not
summarize it, contextualize it. Now, one
thing to know, LinkedIn is always
behind. By the time something trends on
LinkedIn, it already happened somewhere
else 2 days ago or a week ago. So, where
do you actually find the news before it
hits LinkedIn? A few places. Search.
Just Google the trends in your space
daily. Chat with LLMs. Ask Chachi or
Claude what's happening in your industry
this week. You'd be surprised how fast
that surfaces things. X is the big one.
X is always ahead. It's where the early
conversations happen, where the outliers
post first. If you are not scanning X
for what's about to blow up on LinkedIn,
you are always going to be late. And
then there's automation. You can build
flows with tools like OpenClaw that pull
breaking stories and surface them before
anyone else has posted about them on
LinkedIn. And that's actually what I'm
walking through in the next video step
by step. So subscribe so you don't miss
that one. Anyone can share the news.
What your audience actually needs is
someone who understands what it needs,
what the downstream effects are, why the
obvious interpretation might be wrong,
what this change is. Timing is the
variable that determines whether
newsjacking works or doesn't. The
algorithm pushes posts that enter a
conversation while it's still moving. A
Shark tape within 24 to 48 hours is
going to get distributed significantly
harder than the same post published 4
days later. But reminder here, LinkedIn
is always late, so you have a huge
advantage in front of you. One of our
clients covered the revelation that
Chachi BT pulls directly from Google
search and what that means for SEO
strategy. 293 comments, 234 reposts,
28,000
impressions. Another wrote about Bing
launching an AI performance dashboard
and then connected it to the search
visibility for B2B companies. 70 repost,
40,563
impressions. All three hit because they
were early and they had an actual point
of view. It's not a summary, it's a
position. The test for whether your
newsjacking post is ready. Can you
answer so what in one sentence? If not,
you're still summarizing. Keep going
until you can. These first two formats
work by borrowing the attention of
brands and events. But the next two are
different. These work by borrowing the
attention of people and the data on one
of them is almost hard to believe.
Format number three, namejacking.
Namejacking is referencing a specific
person your audience already follows to
stop the scroll then delivering a
perspective that is entirely your own.
It works on the same principle as
brandjacking. The name is a pattern
interrupt. Your audience has builtin
reaction to certain people. When they
see that name in a headline, they stop.
But namejacking is more precise than
brandjacking because the person you
reference usually shares your target
audience. Their followers are already
your ICP. One of our clients referenced
Satia Nadella's decision to replace
know-it-all culture with learnitall
culture at Microsoft and connected it to
hiring philosophy in growth stage
companies. 23,000
impressions. Another referenced Meera
Moratti turning down a billion dollar
acquisition from Zuckerberg and used it
to talk about what actually loyalty
inside organization looks like right
now. 11,934
impressions. Another posted about Steven
Bartlett and connected the lesson to his
business model. Bartlett himself
commented on it. 147,000
impressions. When you reference the
right person with genuine insight,
sometimes that person notices and when
they engage with your content, their
entire audience sees it. That's
distribution you can't buy and can't
manufacture. The rule for namejacking,
you need a real perspective, like all of
them, not just a summary of what they
said. You're adding something, you're
agreeing with nuance, you're
respectfully pushing back, you're
building on it. The moment you are just
repeating what they said, you've lost
the point. Format number four, hot
takes. A hot take is a contrarian
position on something your entire
industry accepts as true. Not being
provocative for its own sake, not
controversy for clicks. A genuinely held
belief that challenges the consensus in
a way that forces people to pick a side,
either yours or the contrary. These work
because of a simple psychological
mechanic. When someone reads a strong
contrarian claim, their brain
immediately checks it against what they
already believe. They agree or they
don't. Cuz either way, they're still
going to engage. One of our clients
posted a direct claim. Original research
is outranking AI written content. Not by
a little, by a lot. And that gap is
widening. 390 comments, 300 reposts,
3,198
likes. Another post said that Chhatri
sold its soul the moment it started
testing ads and broke down exactly what
that means for how people will start
treating AI generated answers. 137
comments, 72,000 impressions, and still
climbing days later. Both posts worked
because they stated a clear position.
Not it depends, not here are both sides,
a claim, ones that people had strong
opinions and they had to respond to the
test for a real hot take. Does it make
you slightly nervous to post? If you
could post it without any anxiety, it's
probably not contraring enough to move
people, four formats, four different
mechanisms, but they all share one
underlying logic. And understanding that
logic is what lets you use them
consistently instead of getting lucky
once. Every post has a job. And the job
of these four formats is reach. New
people, new audiences, and they happen
to be very good at their job. All four
formats do the same thing. They attach
your expertise to something that already
has an audience paying attention to it.
You're not trying to create attention
from scratch. You are redirecting
attention that already exists. This is
the difference between standing in an
empty room hoping someone walks by
versus walking into a room that's
already full. These formats fall into
what we call the growth content bucket.
They're not your everyday posts. They
are the ones designed specifically to
bring in new people. Aim for one to two
of these per week. Mix them in with your
regular authority content. That ratio
keeps your profile balanced between
reaching new audiences and deepening
trust with the people already following
you. I explain the full content mix in
my video, How to Grow on LinkedIn in
2026. The other thing these formats do
that standard posts don't. They give you
something to write about when you're not
sure what to say. You don't have to wait
for inspiration. You check the news. You
look at what the brands in your niche
are doing. You'll pay attention to what
the people your audience follows are
saying. The content is already out
there. You just have to have a real
point of view on it. Four formats: brand
jacking, newsjacking, namejacking, hot
takes. Pick one this week. Find one
brand, one news story, one person, or
one belief in your industry worth
challenging. Write the post. If you want
to see how we built this into a full
content system for B2B companies, that's
what distinct does. Links in the
description. And if this was useful,
subscribe. Every week, I'm breaking down
what's actually working for B2B brands
on LinkedIn right now. See you in the
next one.